<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>XXXI: Mrs. Jehoram‚Äôs Breadth of View</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-31" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="z3998:ordinal z3998:roman">XXXI</h2>
				<p epub:type="title"><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr>¬ÝJehoram‚Äôs Breadth of View</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p>‚ÄúI heard someone playing the fiddle in the Vicarage, as I came by,‚Äù said <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr>¬ÝJehoram, taking her cup of tea from <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr>¬ÝMendham.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúThe Vicar plays,‚Äù said <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr>¬ÝMendham. ‚ÄúI have spoken to George about it, but it‚Äôs no good. I do not think a Vicar should be allowed to do such things. It‚Äôs so foreign. But there, <em>he</em>.‚ÅÝ‚Ää‚ÅÝ‚Ä¶‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI know, dear,‚Äù said <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr>¬ÝJehoram. ‚ÄúBut I heard the Vicar once at the schoolroom. I don‚Äôt think this <em>was</em> the Vicar. It was quite clever, some of it, quite smart, you know. And new. I was telling dear Lady Hammergallow this morning. I fancy‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúThe lunatic! Very likely. These half-witted people.‚ÅÝ‚Ää‚ÅÝ‚Ä¶ My dear, I don‚Äôt think I shall ever forget that dreadful encounter. Yesterday.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúNor I.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúMy poor girls! They are too shocked to say a word about it. I was telling dear Lady Ham‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúQuite proper of them. It was <em>dreadful</em>, dear. For them.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúAnd now, dear, I want you to tell me frankly‚ÅÝ‚ÄîDo you really believe that creature was a man?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúYou should have heard the violin.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI still more than half suspect, Jessie‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚Äù <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr>¬ÝMendham leant forward as if to whisper.</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr>¬ÝJehoram helped herself to cake. ‚ÄúI‚Äôm sure no woman could play the violin quite like I heard it played this morning.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúOf course, if you say so that settles the matter,‚Äù said <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr>¬ÝMendham. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr>¬ÝJehoram was the autocratic authority in Siddermorton upon all questions of art, music and belles-lettres. Her late husband had been a minor poet. Then <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr>¬ÝMendham added a judicial ‚ÄúStill‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúDo you know,‚Äù said <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr>¬ÝJehoram, ‚ÄúI‚Äôm half inclined to believe the dear Vicar‚Äôs story.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúHow <em>good</em> of you, Jessie,‚Äù said <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr>¬ÝMendham.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúBut really, I don‚Äôt think he <em>could</em> have had anyone in the Vicarage before that afternoon. I feel sure we should have heard of it. I don‚Äôt see how a strange cat could come within four miles of Siddermorton without the report coming round to us. The people here gossip so.‚ÅÝ‚Ää‚ÅÝ‚Ä¶‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI always distrust the Vicar,‚Äù said <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr>¬ÝMendham. ‚ÄúI know him.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúYes. But the story is plausible. If this <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝAngel were someone very clever and eccentric‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúHe would have to be <em>very</em> eccentric to dress as he did. There are degrees and limits, dear.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúBut kilts,‚Äù said <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr>¬ÝJehoram.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúAre all very well in the Highlands.‚ÅÝ‚Ää‚ÅÝ‚Ä¶‚Äù</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr>¬ÝJehoram‚Äôs eyes had rested upon a black speck creeping slowly across a patch of yellowish-green up the hill.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúThere he goes,‚Äù said <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr>¬ÝJehoram, rising, ‚Äúacross the cornfield. I‚Äôm sure that‚Äôs him. I can see the hump. Unless it‚Äôs a man with a sack. Bless me, Minnie! here‚Äôs an opera glass. How convenient for peeping at the Vicarage!‚ÅÝ‚Ää‚ÅÝ‚Ä¶ Yes, it‚Äôs the man. He is a man. With <em>such</em> a sweet face.‚Äù</p>
			<p>Very unselfishly she allowed her hostess to share the opera glass. For a minute there was a rustling silence.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúHis dress,‚Äù said <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr>¬ÝMendham, ‚Äúis <em>quite</em> respectable now.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúQuite,‚Äù said <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr>¬ÝJehoram.</p>
			<p>Pause.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúHe looks cross!‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúAnd his coat is dusty.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúHe walks steadily enough,‚Äù said <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr>¬ÝMendham, ‚Äúor one might think.‚ÅÝ‚Ää‚ÅÝ‚Ä¶ This hot weather.‚ÅÝ‚Ää‚ÅÝ‚Ä¶‚Äù</p>
			<p>Another pause.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúYou see, dear,‚Äù said <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr>¬ÝJehoram, putting down the lorgnette. ‚ÄúWhat I was going to say was, that possibly he might be a genius in disguise.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúIf you can call next door to nothing a disguise.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúNo doubt it was eccentric. But I‚Äôve seen children in little blouses, not at all unlike him. So many clever people <em>are</em> peculiar in their dress and manners. A genius may steal a horse where a bank-clerk may not look over the hedge. Very possibly he‚Äôs quite well known and laughing at our Arcadian simplicity. And really it wasn‚Äôt so improper as some of these New Women bicycling costumes. I saw one in one of the Illustrated Papers only a few days ago‚ÅÝ‚Äîthe <i epub:type="se:name.publication.magazine">New Budget</i> I think‚ÅÝ‚Äîquite tights, you know, dear. No‚ÅÝ‚ÄîI cling to the genius theory. Especially after the playing. I‚Äôm sure the creature is original. Perhaps very amusing. In fact, I intend to ask the Vicar to introduce me.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúMy dear!‚Äù cried <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr>¬ÝMendham.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI‚Äôm resolute,‚Äù said <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr>¬ÝJehoram.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI‚Äôm afraid you‚Äôre rash,‚Äù said <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr>¬ÝMendham. ‚ÄúGeniuses and people of that kind are all very well in London. But here‚ÅÝ‚Äîat the Vicarage.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWe are going to educate the folks. I love originality. At any rate I mean to see him.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúTake care you don‚Äôt see too much of him,‚Äù said <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr>¬ÝMendham. ‚ÄúI‚Äôve heard the fashion is quite changing. I understand that some of the very best people have decided that genius is not to be encouraged any more. These recent scandals.‚ÅÝ‚Ää‚ÅÝ‚Ä¶‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúOnly in literature, I can assure you, dear. In music.‚ÅÝ‚Ää‚ÅÝ‚Ä¶‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúNothing you can say, my dear,‚Äù said <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr>¬ÝMendham, going off at a tangent, ‚Äúwill convince me that that person‚Äôs costume was not extremely suggestive and improper.‚Äù</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
