<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Chapter 3: The Hunting of the Strange Bird</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-3" epub:type="chapter">
			<h2 epub:type="title">
				<span epub:type="z3998:roman">III</span>
				<span epub:type="subtitle">The Hunting of the Strange Bird</span>
			</h2>
			<p>The Vicar of Siddermorton (which is nine miles inland from Siddermouth as the crow flies) was an ornithologist. Some such pursuit, botany, antiquity, folklore, is almost inevitable for a single man in his position. He was given to geometry also, propounding occasionally impossible problems in the <i epub:type="se:name.publication.newspaper">Educational Times</i>, but ornithology was his forte. He had already added two visitors to the list of occasional British birds. His name was well-known in the columns of the <i epub:type="se:name.publication.journal">Zoologist</i> (I am afraid it may be forgotten by now, for the world moves apace). And on the day after the coming of the Strange Bird, came first one and then another to confirm the ploughman’s story and tell him, not that it had any connection, of the Glare upon Sidderford moor.</p>
			<p>Now, the Vicar of Siddermorton had two rivals in his scientific pursuits; Gully of Sidderton, who had actually seen the Glare, and who it was sent the drawing to <i epub:type="se:name.publication.journal">Nature</i>, and Borland the natural history dealer, who kept the marine laboratory at Portburdock. Borland, the Vicar thought, should have stuck to his copepods, but instead he kept a taxidermist, and took advantage of his littoral position to pick up rare sea birds. It was evident to anyone who knew anything of collecting that both these men would be scouring the country after the strange visitant, before twenty-four hours were out.</p>
			<p>The Vicar’s eye rested on the back of Saunders’ <i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">British Birds</i>, for he was in his study at the time. Already in two places there was entered: “the only known British specimen was secured by the <abbr>Rev.</abbr> <abbr class="name">K.</abbr> Hilyer, Vicar of Siddermorton.” A third such entry. He doubted if any other collector had that.</p>
			<p>He looked at his watch⁠—<em>two</em>. He had just lunched, and usually he “rested” in the afternoon. He knew it would make him feel very disagreeable if he went out into the hot sunshine⁠—both on the top of his head and generally. Yet Gully perhaps was out, prowling observant. Suppose it was something very good and Gully got it!</p>
			<p>His gun stood in the corner. (The thing had iridiscent wings and pink legs! The chromatic conflict was certainly exceedingly stimulating). He took his gun.</p>
			<p>He would have gone out by the glass doors and verandah, and down the garden into the hill road, in order to avoid his housekeeper’s eye. He knew his gun expeditions were not approved of. But advancing towards him up the garden, he saw the curate’s wife and her two daughters, carrying tennis rackets. His curate’s wife was a young woman of immense will, who used to play tennis on his lawn, and cut his roses, differ from him on doctrinal points, and criticise his personal behaviour all over the parish. He went in abject fear of her, was always trying to propitiate her. But so far he had clung to his ornithology. …</p>
			<p>However, he went out by the front door.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
