<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Chapter 37: The Angel’s Debut (Continued)</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-37" epub:type="chapter">
			<h2 epub:type="title">
				<span epub:type="z3998:roman">XXXVII</span>
				<span epub:type="subtitle">The Angel’s Debut (Continued)</span>
			</h2>
			<p>“He’s drunk!” said <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Rathbone-Slater, breaking a terrific silence. “That’s the matter with <em>him</em>.”</p>
			<p><abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Jehoram laughed hysterically.</p>
			<p>The Vicar stood up, motionless, staring. “Oh! I <em>forgot</em> to explain servants to him!” said the Vicar to himself in a swift outbreak of remorse. “I thought he <em>did</em> understand servants.”</p>
			<p>“Really, <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Hilyer!” said Lady Hammergallow, evidently exercising enormous self-control and speaking in panting spasms. “Really, <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Hilyer!⁠—Your genius is <em>too</em> terrible. I must, I really <em>must</em>, ask you to take him home.”</p>
			<p>So to the dialogue in the corridor of alarmed maidservant and well-meaning (but shockingly <i xml:lang="fr">gauche</i>) Angel⁠—appears the Vicar, his botryoidal little face crimson, gaunt despair in his eyes, and his necktie under his left ear.</p>
			<p>“Come,” he said⁠—struggling with emotion. “Come away. … I. … I am disgraced forever.”</p>
			<p>And the Angel stared for a second at him and obeyed⁠—meekly, perceiving himself in the presence of unknown but evidently terrible forces.</p>
			<p>And so began and ended the Angel’s social career.</p>
			<p>In the informal indignation meeting that followed, Lady Hammergallow took the (informal) chair. “I feel humiliated,” she said. “The Vicar assured me he was an exquisite player. I never imagined. …”</p>
			<p>“He was drunk,” said <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Rathbone-Slater. “You could tell it from the way he fumbled with his tea.”</p>
			<p>“Such a <em>fiasco</em>!” said <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Mergle.</p>
			<p>“The Vicar assured me,” said Lady Hammergallow. “ ‘The man I have staying with me is a musical genius,’ he said. His very words.”</p>
			<p>“His ears must be burning anyhow,” said Tommy Rathbone-Slater.</p>
			<p>“I was trying to keep him Quiet,” said <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Jehoram. “By humouring him. And do you know the things he said to me⁠—there!”</p>
			<p>“The thing he played,” said <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Wilmerdings,”⁠—I must confess I did not like to charge him to his face. But really! It was merely <em>drifting</em>.”</p>
			<p>“Just fooling with a fiddle, eigh?” said George Harringay. “Well I thought it was beyond me. So much of your fine music is⁠—”</p>
			<p>“Oh, <em>George</em>!” said the younger Miss Pirbright.</p>
			<p>“The Vicar was a bit on too⁠—to judge by his tie,” said <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Rathbone-Slater. “It’s a dashed rummy go. Did you notice how he fussed after the genius?”</p>
			<p>“One has to be so very careful,” said the very eldest Miss Papaver.</p>
			<p>“He told me he is in love with the Vicar’s housemaid!” said <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Jehoram. “I almost laughed in his face.”</p>
			<p>“The Vicar ought <em>never</em> to have brought him here,” said <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Rathbone-Slater with decision.</p>
			<hr/>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
