<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Chapter 46: The Angel in Trouble (Continued)</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-46" epub:type="chapter">
			<h2 epub:type="title">
				<span epub:type="z3998:roman">XLVI</span>
				<span epub:type="subtitle">The Angel in Trouble (Continued)</span>
			</h2>
			<p>Delia sat with her window open, hoping to hear the Angel play. But that night there was to be no playing. The sky was overcast, yet not so thickly but that the moon was visible. High up a broken cloud-lace drove across the sky, and now the moon was a hazy patch of light, and now it was darkened, and now rode clear and bright and sharply outlined against the blue gulf of night. And presently she heard the door into the garden opening, and a figure came out under the drifting pallor of the moonlight.</p>
			<p>It was the Angel. But he wore once more the saffron robe in the place of his formless overcoat. In the uncertain light this garment had only a colourless shimmer, and his wings behind him seemed a leaden grey. He began taking short runs, flapping his wings and leaping, going to and fro amidst the drifting patches of light and the shadows of the trees. Delia watched him in amazement. He gave a despondent cry, leaping higher. His shrivelled wings flashed and fell. A thicker patch in the cloud-film made everything obscure. He seemed to spring five or six feet from the ground and fall clumsily. She saw him in the dimness crouching on the ground and then she heard him sobbing.</p>
			<p>“He’s hurt!” said Delia, pressing her lips together hard and staring. “I ought to help him.”</p>
			<p>She hesitated, then stood up and flitted swiftly towards the door, went slipping quietly downstairs and out into the moonlight. The Angel still lay upon the lawn, and sobbed for utter wretchedness.</p>
			<p>“Oh! what is the matter?” said Delia, stooping over him and touching his head timidly.</p>
			<p>The Angel ceased sobbing, sat up abruptly, and stared at her. He saw her face, moonlit, and soft with pity. “What is the matter?” she whispered. “Are you hurt?”</p>
			<p>The Angel stared about him, and his eyes came to rest on her face. “Delia!” he whispered.</p>
			<p>“Are you hurt?” said Delia.</p>
			<p>“My wings,” said the Angel. “I cannot use my wings.”</p>
			<p>Delia did not understand, but she realised that it was something very dreadful. “It is dark, it is cold,” whispered the Angel; “I cannot use my wings.”</p>
			<p>It hurt her unaccountably to see the tears on his face. She did not know what to do.</p>
			<p>“Pity me, Delia,” said the Angel, suddenly extending his arms towards her; “pity me.”</p>
			<p>Impulsively she knelt down and took his face between her hands. “I do not know,” she said; “but I am sorry. I am sorry for you, with all my heart.”</p>
			<p>The Angel said not a word. He was looking at her little face in the bright moonlight, with an expression of uncomprehending wonder in his eyes. “This strange world!” he said.</p>
			<p>She suddenly withdrew her hands. A cloud drove over the moon. “What can I do to help you?” she whispered. “I would do anything to help you.”</p>
			<p>He still held her at arm’s length, perplexity replacing misery in his face. “This strange world!” he repeated.</p>
			<p>Both whispered, she kneeling, he sitting, in the fluctuating moonlight and darkness of the lawn.</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>“Delia!” said <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Hinijer, suddenly projecting from her window; “Delia, is that you?”</p>
			<p>They both looked up at her in consternation.</p>
			<p>“Come in at once, Delia,” said <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Hinijer. “If that <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Angel was a gentleman (which he isn’t), he’d feel ashamed of hisself. And you an orphan too!”</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
