<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>XXXV: The Angel’s Debut (Continued)</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-35" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXXV</h2>
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Angel’s Debut (Continued)</h3>
			</hgroup>
			<p><abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Jehoram and the Angel (apart)⁠—<abbr>Mr.</abbr> Wilmerdings playing.</p>
			<p>“I have so longed for a quiet word with you,” said <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Jehoram in a low tone. “To tell you how delightful I found your playing.”</p>
			<p>“I am glad it pleased you,” said the Angel.</p>
			<p>“Pleased is scarcely the word,” said <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Jehoram. “I was moved⁠—profoundly. These others did not understand.⁠ ⁠… I was glad you did not play with him.”</p>
			<p>The Angel looked at the mechanism called Wilmerdings, and felt glad too. (The Angelic conception of duets is a kind of conversation upon violins.) But he said nothing.</p>
			<p>“I worship music,” said <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Jehoram. “I know nothing about it technically, but there is something in it⁠—a longing, a wish.⁠ ⁠…”</p>
			<p>The Angel stared at her face. She met his eyes.</p>
			<p>“You understand,” she said. “I see you understand.” He was certainly a very nice boy, sentimentally precocious perhaps, and with deliciously liquid eyes.</p>
			<p>There was an interval of Chopin (Op. 40) played with immense precision.</p>
			<p><abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Jehoram had a sweet face still, in shadow, with the light falling round her golden hair, and a curious theory flashed across the Angel’s mind. The perceptible powder only supported his view of something infinitely bright and lovable caught, tarnished, coarsened, coated over.</p>
			<p>“Do you,” said the Angel in a low tone. “Are you⁠ ⁠… separated from⁠ ⁠… <em>your</em> world?”</p>
			<p>“As you are?” whispered <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Jehoram.</p>
			<p>“This is so⁠—cold,” said the Angel. “So harsh!” He meant the whole world.</p>
			<p>“I feel it too,” said <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Jehoram, referring to Siddermorton Home.</p>
			<p>“There are those who cannot live without sympathy,” she said after a sympathetic pause. “And times when one feels alone in the world. Fighting a battle against it all. Laughing, flirting, hiding the pain of it.⁠ ⁠…”</p>
			<p>“And hoping,” said the Angel with a wonderful glance.⁠—“Yes.”</p>
			<p><abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Jehoram (who was an epicure of flirtations) felt the Angel was more than redeeming the promise of his appearance. (Indisputably he worshipped her.) “Do <em>you</em> look for sympathy?” she said. “Or have you found it?”</p>
			<p>“I think,” said the Angel, very softly, leaning forward, “I think I have found it.”</p>
			<p>Interval of Chopin Op. 40. The very eldest Miss Papaver and <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Pirbright whispering. Lady Hammergallow (glasses up) looking down the saloon with an unfriendly expression at the Angel. <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Jehoram and the Angel exchanging deep and significant glances.</p>
			<p>“Her name,” said the Angel (<abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Jehoram made a movement) “is Delia. She is.⁠ ⁠…”</p>
			<p>“Delia!” said <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Jehoram sharply, slowly realising a terrible misunderstanding. “A fanciful name.⁠ ⁠… Why!⁠ ⁠… No! Not that little housemaid at the Vicarage⁠—?⁠ ⁠…”</p>
			<p>The Polonaise terminated with a flourish. The Angel was quite surprised at the change in <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Jehoram’s expression.</p>
			<p>“<em>I never</em> did!” said <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Jehoram recovering. “To make me your confidant in an intrigue with a servant. Really <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Angel it’s possible to be too original.⁠ ⁠…”</p>
			<p>Then suddenly their colloquy was interrupted.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
