<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>XXXIII: The Warp and the Woof of Things</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-33" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXXIII</h2>
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Warp and the Woof of Things</h3>
			</hgroup>
			<p>At the dinner table the Angel told the Vicar the more striking of his day’s adventures.</p>
			<p>“The strange thing,” said the Angel, “is the readiness of you Human Beings⁠—the zest, with which you inflict pain. Those boys pelting me this morning⁠—”</p>
			<p>“Seemed to enjoy it,” said the Vicar. “I know.”</p>
			<p>“Yet they don’t like pain,” said the Angel.</p>
			<p>“No,” said the Vicar; “<em>they</em> don’t like it.”</p>
			<p>“Then,” said the Angel, “I saw some beautiful plants rising with a spike of leaves, two this way and two that, and when I caressed one it caused the most uncomfortable⁠—”</p>
			<p>“Stinging nettle!” said the Vicar.</p>
			<p>“At any rate a new sort of pain. And another plant with a head like a coronet, and richly decorated leaves, spiked and jagged⁠—”</p>
			<p>“A thistle, possibly.”</p>
			<p>“And in your garden, the beautiful, sweet-smelling plant⁠—”</p>
			<p>“The sweet briar,” said the Vicar. “I remember.”</p>
			<p>“And that pink flower that sprang out of the box⁠—”</p>
			<p>“Out of the box?” said the Vicar.</p>
			<p>“Last night,” said the Angel, “that went climbing up the curtains⁠—Flame!”</p>
			<p>“Oh!⁠—the matches and the candles! Yes,” said the Vicar.</p>
			<p>“Then the animals. A dog today behaved most disagreeably⁠—. And these boys, and the way in which people speak⁠—. Everyone seems anxious⁠—willing at any rate⁠—to give this Pain. Everyone seems busy giving pain⁠—”</p>
			<p>“Or avoiding it,” said the Vicar, pushing his dinner away before him. “Yes⁠—of course. It’s fighting everywhere. The whole living world is a battlefield⁠—the whole world. We are driven by pain. Here. How it lies on the surface! This Angel sees it in a day!”</p>
			<p>“But why does everyone⁠—everything⁠—want to give pain?” asked the Angel.</p>
			<p>“It is not so in the Angelic Land?” said the Vicar.</p>
			<p>“No,” said the Angel. “Why is it so here?”</p>
			<p>The Vicar wiped his lips with his napkin slowly. “It <em>is</em> so,” he said. “Pain,” said he still more slowly, “is the warp and the woof of this life. Do you know,” he said, after a pause, “it is almost impossible for me to imagine⁠ ⁠… a world without pain.⁠ ⁠… And yet, as you played this morning⁠—</p>
			<p>“But this world is different. It is the very reverse of an Angelic world. Indeed, a number of people⁠—excellent religious people⁠—have been so impressed by the universality of pain that they think, after death, things will be even worse for a great many of us. It seems to me an excessive view. But it’s a deep question. Almost beyond one’s power of discussion⁠—”</p>
			<p>And incontinently the Vicar plumped into an impromptu dissertation upon “Necessity,” how things were so because they were so, how one <em>had</em> to do this and that. “Even our food,” said the Vicar. “What?” said the Angel. “Is not obtained without inflicting Pain,” said the Vicar.</p>
			<p>The Angel’s face went so white that the Vicar checked himself suddenly. Or he was just on the very verge of a concise explanation of the antecedents of a leg of lamb. There was a pause.</p>
			<p>“By the by,” said the Angel, suddenly. “Have you been pithed? Like the common people.”</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
