<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>XXIV: The Angel Explores the Village</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-24" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXIV</h2>
				<p epub:type="title">The Angel Explores the Village</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p>Very unwisely, as I think, the Vicar allowed the Angel to go down into the village by himself, to enlarge his ideas of humanity. Unwisely, because how was he to imagine the reception the Angel would receive? Not thoughtlessly, I am afraid. He had always carried himself with decorum in the village, and the idea of a slow procession through the little street with all the inevitable curious remarks, explanations, pointings, was too much for him. The Angel might do the strangest things, the village was certain to think them. Peering faces. “Who’s <em>he</em> got now?” Besides, was it not his duty to prepare his sermon in good time? The Angel, duly directed, went down cheerfully by himself⁠—still innocent of most of the peculiarities of the human as distinguished from the angelic turn of mind.</p>
			<p>The Angel walked slowly, his white hands folded behind his hunched back, his sweet face looking this way and that. He peered curiously into the eyes of the people he met. A little child picking a bunch of vetch and honeysuckle looked in his face, and forthwith came and put them in his hand. It was about the only kindness he had from a human being (saving only the Vicar and one other). He heard Mother Gustick scolding that granddaughter of hers as he passed the door. “You <em>Brazen</em> Faggit⁠—you!” said Mother Gustick. “You Trumpery Baggage!”</p>
			<p>The Angel stopped, startled at the strange sounds of Mother Gustick’s voice. “Put yer best clo’es on, and yer feather in yer ’at, and off you goes to meet en, fal lal, and me at ’ome slaving for ye. ’Tis a Fancy Lady you’ll be wantin’ to be, my gal, a walkin’ Touch and Go, with yer idleness and finery⁠—”</p>
			<p>The voice ceased abruptly, and a great peace came upon the battered air. “Most grotesque and strange!” said the Angel, still surveying this wonderful box of discords. “Walking Touch and Go!” He did not know that <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Gustick had suddenly become aware of his existence, and was scrutinizing his appearance through the window-blind. Abruptly the door flew open, and she stared out into the Angel’s face. A strange apparition, grey and dusty hair, and the dirty pink dress unhooked to show the stringy throat, a discoloured gargoyle, presently to begin spouting incomprehensible abuse.</p>
			<p>“Now, then, Mister,” began <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Gustick. “Have ye nothin’ better to do than listen at people’s doors for what you can pick up?”</p>
			<p>The Angel stared at her in astonishment.</p>
			<p>“D’year!” said <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Gustick, evidently very angry indeed. “Listenin’.”</p>
			<p>“Have you any objection to my hearing.⁠ ⁠…”</p>
			<p>“Object to my hearing! Course I have! Whad yer think? You aint such a Ninny.⁠ ⁠…”</p>
			<p>“But if you didn’t want me to hear, why did you cry out so loud? I thought.⁠ ⁠…”</p>
			<p>“<em>You thought!</em> Softie⁠—that’s what <em>you</em> are! You silly girt staring Gaby, what don’t know any better than to come holding yer girt mouth wide open for all that you can catch holt on? And then off up there to tell! You great Fat-Faced, Tale-Bearin’ Silly-Billy! I’d be ashamed to come poking and peering round quiet people’s houses.⁠ ⁠…”</p>
			<p>The Angel was surprised to find that some inexplicable quality in her voice excited the most disagreeable sensations in him and a strong desire to withdraw. But, resisting this, he stood listening politely (as the custom is in the Angelic Land, so long as anyone is speaking). The entire eruption was beyond his comprehension. He could not perceive any reason for the sudden projection of this vituperative head, out of infinity, so to speak. And questions without a break for an answer were outside his experience altogether.</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Gustick proceeded with her characteristic fluency, assured him he was no gentleman, enquired if he called himself one, remarked that every tramp did as much nowadays, compared him to a Stuck Pig, marvelled at his impudence, asked him if he wasn’t ashamed of himself standing there, enquired if he was rooted to the ground, was curious to be told what he meant by it, wanted to know whether he robbed a scarecrow for his clothes, suggested that an abnormal vanity prompted his behaviour, enquired if his mother knew he was out, and finally remarking, “I got somethin’ll move you, my gentleman,” disappeared with a ferocious slamming of the door.</p>
			<p>The interval struck the Angel as singularly peaceful. His whirling mind had time to analyse his sensations. He ceased bowing and smiling, and stood merely astonished.</p>
			<p>“This is a curious painful feeling,” said the Angel. “Almost worse than Hungry, and quite different. When one is hungry one wants to eat. I suppose she was a woman. Here one wants to get away. I suppose I might just as well go.”</p>
			<p>He turned slowly and went down the road meditating. He heard the cottage door reopen, and turning his head, saw through intervening scarlet runners <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Gustick with a steaming saucepan full of boiling cabbage water in her hand.</p>
			<p>“ ’Tis well you went, Mister Stolen Breeches,” came the voice of <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Gustick floating down through the vermilion blossoms. “Don’t you come peeping and prying round this yer cottage again or I’ll learn ye manners, I will!”</p>
			<p>The Angel stood in a state of considerable perplexity. He had no desire to come within earshot of the cottage again⁠—ever. He did not understand the precise import of the black pot, but his general impression was entirely disagreeable. There was no explaining it.</p>
			<p>“I <em>mean</em> it!” said <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Gustick, crescendo. “Drat it!⁠—I <em>mean</em> it.”</p>
			<p>The Angel turned and went on, a dazzled look in his eyes.</p>
			<p>“She was very grotesque!” said the Angel. “<em>Very.</em> Much more than the little man in black. And she means it.⁠—But what she means I don’t know!⁠ ⁠…” He became silent. “I suppose they all mean something,” he said, presently, still perplexed.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
