<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Chapter 45: The Angel in Trouble</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-45" epub:type="chapter">
			<h2 epub:type="title">
				<span epub:type="z3998:roman">XLV</span>
				<span epub:type="subtitle">The Angel in Trouble</span>
			</h2>
			<p>“The fact is,” said the Vicar, “this is no world for Angels.”</p>
			<p>The blinds had not been drawn, and the twilight outer world under an overcast sky seemed unspeakably grey and cold. The Angel sat at table in dejected silence. His inevitable departure had been proclaimed. Since his presence hurt people and made the Vicar wretched he acquiesced in the justice of the decision, but what would happen to him after his plunge he could not imagine. Something very disagreeable certainly.</p>
			<p>“There is the violin,” said the Vicar. “Only after our experience⁠—”</p>
			<p>“I must get you clothes⁠—a general outfit.⁠— Dear me! you don’t understand railway travelling! And coinage! Taking lodgings! Eating-houses!⁠— I must come up at least and see you settled. Get work for you. But an Angel in London! Working for his living! That grey cold wilderness of people! What <em>will</em> become of you?⁠— If I had one friend in the world I could trust to believe me!”</p>
			<p>“I ought not to be sending you away⁠—”</p>
			<p>“Do not trouble overmuch for me, my friend,” said the Angel. “At least this life of yours ends. And there are things in it. There is something in this life of yours⁠— Your care for me! I thought there was nothing beautiful at all in life⁠—”</p>
			<p>“And I have betrayed you!” said the Vicar, with a sudden wave of remorse. “Why did I not face them all⁠—say, ‘This is the best of life’? What do these everyday things matter?”</p>
			<p>He stopped suddenly. “What <em>do</em> they matter?” he said.</p>
			<p>“I have only come into your life to trouble it,” said the Angel.</p>
			<p>“Don’t say that,” said the Vicar. “You have come into my life to awaken me. I have been dreaming⁠—dreaming. Dreaming this was necessary and that. Dreaming that this narrow prison was the world. And the dream still hangs about me and troubles me. That is all. Even your departure⁠—. Am I not dreaming that you must go?”</p>
			<p>When he was in bed that night the mystical aspect of the case came still more forcibly before the Vicar. He lay awake and had the most horrible visions of his sweet and delicate visitor drifting through this unsympathetic world and happening upon the cruellest misadventures. His guest <em>was</em> an Angel assuredly. He tried to go over the whole story of the past eight days again. He thought of the hot afternoon, the shot fired out of sheer surprise, the fluttering iridescent wings, the beautiful saffron-robed figure upon the ground. How wonderful that had seemed to him! Then his mind turned to the things he had heard of the other world, to the dreams the violin had conjured up, to the vague, fluctuating, wonderful cities of the Angelic Land. He tried to recall the forms of the buildings, the shapes of the fruits upon the trees, the aspect of the winged shapes that traversed its ways. They grew from a memory into a present reality, grew every moment just a little more vivid and his troubles a little less immediate; and so, softly and quietly, the Vicar slipped out of his troubles and perplexities into the Land of Dreams.</p>
			<hr/>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
