<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Chapter 19: After Dinner (Continued)</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-19" epub:type="chapter">
			<h2 epub:type="title">
				<span epub:type="z3998:roman">XIX</span>
				<span epub:type="subtitle">After Dinner (Continued)</span>
			</h2>
			<p>So the Angel dined and talked to the Vicar, and presently the night came and he was overtaken by yawning.</p>
			<p>"Yah——oh!" said the Angel suddenly. "Dear me! A higher power seemed suddenly to stretch my mouth open and a great breath of air went rushing down my throat."</p>
			<p>"You yawned," said the Vicar. "Do you never yawn in the angelic country?"</p>
			<p>"Never," said the Angel.</p>
			<p>"And yet you are immortal!——I suppose you want to go to bed."</p>
			<p>"Bed!" said the Angel. "Where's that?"</p>
			<p>So the Vicar explained darkness to him and the art of going to bed. (The Angels, it seems sleep only in order to dream, and dream, like primitive man, with their foreheads on their knees. And they sleep among the white poppy meadows in the heat of the day.) The Angel found the bedroom arrangements quaint enough.</p>
			<p>"Why is everything raised up on big wooden legs?" he said. "You have the floor, and then you put everything you have upon a wooden quadruped. Why do you do it?" The Vicar explained with philosophical vagueness. The Angel burnt his finger in the candle-flame—and displayed an absolute ignorance of the elementary principles of combustion. He was merely charmed when a line of fire ran up the curtains. The Vicar had to deliver a lecture on fire so soon as the flame was extinguished. He had all kinds of explanations to make—even the soap needed explaining. It was an hour or more before the Angel was safely tucked in for the night.</p>
			<p>"He's very beautiful," said the Vicar, descending the staircase, quite tired out; "and he's a real angel no doubt. But I am afraid he will be a dreadful anxiety, all the same, before he gets into our earthly way with things."</p>
			<p>He seemed quite worried. He helped himself to an extra glass of sherry before he put away the wine in the cellaret.</p>
			<hr/>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>

