<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>XXVI: The Angel Explores the Village (Continued)</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-26" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXVI</h2>
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Angel Explores the Village (Continued)</h3>
			</hgroup>
			<p>The Angel went on through the village, finding it all wonderful enough. “They begin, and just a little while and then they end,” he said to himself in a puzzled voice. “But what are they doing meanwhile?” Once he heard some invisible mouth chant inaudible words to the tune the man at the forge had hummed.</p>
			<p>“That’s the poor creature the Vicar shot with that great gun of his,” said Sarah Glue (of 1, Church Cottages) peering over the blind.</p>
			<p>“He looks Frenchified,” said Susan Hopper, peering through the interstices of that convenient veil on curiosity.</p>
			<p>“He has sweet eyes,” said Sarah Glue, who had met them for a moment.</p>
			<p>The Angel sauntered on. The postman passed him and touched his hat to him; further down was a dog asleep in the sun. He went on and saw Mendham, who nodded distantly and hurried past. (The Curate did not care to be seen talking to an angel in the village, until more was known about him). There came from one of the houses the sound of a child screaming in a passion, that brought a puzzled look to the angelic face. Then the Angel reached the bridge below the last of the houses, and stood leaning over the parapet watching the glittering little cascade from the mill.</p>
			<p>“They begin, and just a little while, and then they end,” said the weir from the mill. The water raced under the bridge, green and dark, and streaked with foam.</p>
			<p>Beyond the mill rose the square tower of the church, with the churchyard behind it, a spray of tombstones and wooden headboards splashed up the hillside. A half dozen of beech trees framed the picture.</p>
			<p>Then the Angel heard a shuffling of feet and the gride of wheels behind him, and turning his head saw a man dressed in dirty brown rags and a felt hat grey with dust, who was standing with a slight swaying motion and fixedly regarding the Angelic back. Beyond him was another almost equally dirty, pushing a knife grinder’s barrow over the bridge.</p>
			<p>“Mornin’,” said the first person smiling weakly. “Goomorn’.” He arrested an escaping hiccup.</p>
			<p>The Angel stared at him. He had never seen a really fatuous smile before. “Who are you?” said the Angel.</p>
			<p>The fatuous smile faded. “No your business whoaaam. Wishergoomorn.”</p>
			<p>“Carm on,” said the man with the grindstone, passing on his way.</p>
			<p>“Wishergoomorn,” said the dirty man, in a tone of extreme aggravation. “Carncher Answerme?”</p>
			<p>“Carm <em>on</em> you fool!” said the man with the grindstone⁠—receding.</p>
			<p>“I don’t understand,” said the Angel.</p>
			<p>“Donunderstan’. Sim’l enough. Wishergoomorn’. Willyanswerme? Wontchr? gemwishergem goomorn. Cusom answer goomorn. No gem. Haverteachyer.”</p>
			<p>The Angel was puzzled. The drunken man stood swaying for a moment, then he made an unsteady snatch at his hat and threw it down at the Angel’s feet. “Ver well,” he said, as one who decides great issues.</p>
			<p>“<em>Carm</em> on!” said the voice of the man with the grindstone⁠—stopping perhaps twenty yards off.</p>
			<p>“You <em>wan</em> fight, you⁠—” the Angel failed to catch the word. “I’ll show yer, not answer gem’s goomorn.”</p>
			<p>He began to struggle with his jacket. “Think I’m drun,” he said, “I show yer.” The man with the grindstone sat down on the shaft to watch. “Carm on,” he said. The jacket was intricate, and the drunken man began to struggle about the road, in his attempts to extricate himself, breathing threatenings and slaughter. Slowly the Angel began to suspect, remotely enough, that these demonstrations were hostile. “Mur wun know yer when I done wi’ yer,” said the drunken man, coat almost over his head.</p>
			<p>At last the garment lay on the ground, and through the frequent interstices of his reminiscences of a waistcoat, the drunken tinker displayed a fine hairy and muscular body to the Angel’s observant eyes. He squared up in masterly fashion.</p>
			<p>“Take the paint off yer,” he remarked, advancing and receding, fists up and elbows out.</p>
			<p>“Carm on,” floated down the road.</p>
			<p>The Angel’s attention was concentrated on two huge hairy black fists, that swayed and advanced and retreated. “Come on d’yer say? I’ll show yer,” said the gentleman in rags, and then with extraordinary ferocity; “My crikey! I’ll show yer.”</p>
			<p>Suddenly he lurched forward, and with a newborn instinct and raising a defensive arm as he did so, the Angel stepped aside to avoid him. The fist missed the Angelic shoulder by a hairsbreadth, and the tinker collapsed in a heap with his face against the parapet of the bridge. The Angel hesitated over the writhing dusty heap of blasphemy for a moment, and then turned towards the man’s companion up the road. “Lemmeget up,” said the man on the bridge: “Lemmeget up, you swine. I’ll show yer.”</p>
			<p>A strange disgust, a quivering repulsion came upon the Angel. He walked slowly away from the drunkard towards the man with the grindstone.</p>
			<p>“What does it all mean?” said the Angel. “I don’t understand it.”</p>
			<p>“Dam fool!⁠ ⁠… say’s it’s ’is silver weddin’,” answered the man with the grindstone, evidently much annoyed; and then, in a tone of growing impatience, he called down the road once more; “Carm on!”</p>
			<p>“Silver wedding!” said the Angel. “What is a silver wedding?”</p>
			<p>“Jest is rot,” said the man on the barrow. “But ’e’s always avin’ some ’scuse like that. Fair sickenin it is. Lars week it wus ’is bloomin’ birthday, and <em>then</em> ’e ad’nt ardly got sober orf a comlimentary drunk to my noo barrer. (<em>Carm</em> on, you fool.)”</p>
			<p>“But I don’t understand,” said the Angel. “Why does he sway about so? Why does he keep on trying to pick up his hat like that⁠—and missing it?”</p>
			<p>“<em>Why!</em>” said the tinker. “Well this <em>is</em> a blasted innocent country! <em>Why!</em> Because ’e’s blind! Wot else? (Carm on⁠—<em>Dam</em> yer). Because ’e’s just as full as ’e can ’old. That’s <em>why</em>!”</p>
			<p>The Angel noticing the tone of the second tinker’s voice, judged it wiser not to question him further. But he stood by the grindstone and continued to watch the mysterious evolutions on the bridge.</p>
			<p>“Carm on! I shall ’ave to go and pick up that ’at I suppose.⁠ ⁠… ’E’s always at it. I ne’er ’ad such a blooming pard before. <em>Always</em> at it, ’e is.”</p>
			<p>The man with the barrow meditated. “Taint as if ’e was a gentleman and ’adnt no livin’ to get. An’ ’e’s such a reckless fool when ’e gets a bit on. Goes offerin out everyone ’e meets. (<em>There</em> you go!) I’m blessed if ’e didn’t offer out a ’ole bloomin’ Salvation Army. No judgment in it. (Oh! <em>Carm</em> on! <em>Carm</em> on!). ’Ave to go and pick this bloomin’ ’at up now I s’pose. ’E don’t care, <em>wot</em> trouble ’e gives.”</p>
			<p>The Angel watched the second tinker walk back, and, with affectionate blasphemy, assist the first to his hat and his coat. Then he turned, absolutely mystified, towards the village again.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
