<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>XXXIX: The Trouble of the Barbed Wire (Continued)</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-39" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXXIX</h2>
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Trouble of the Barbed Wire (Continued)</h3>
			</hgroup>
			<p>The Vicar’s table-talk at dinner that night, after the Angel had stated his case, was full of grim explanations, prisons, madness.</p>
			<p>“It’s too late to tell the truth about you now,” said the Vicar. “Besides, that’s impossible. I really do not know what to say. We must face our circumstances, I suppose. I am so undecided⁠—so torn. It’s the two worlds. If your Angelic world were only a dream, or if <em>this</em> world were only a dream⁠—or if I could believe either or both dreams, it would be all right with me. But here is a real Angel and a real summons⁠—how to reconcile them I do not know. I must talk to Gotch. … But he won’t understand. Nobody will understand. …”</p>
			<p>“I am putting you to terrible inconvenience, I am afraid. My appalling unworldliness⁠—”</p>
			<p>“It’s not you,” said the Vicar. “It’s not you. I perceive you have brought something strange and beautiful into my life. It’s not you. It’s myself. If I had more faith either way. If I could believe entirely in this world, and call you an Abnormal Phenomenon, as Crump does. But no. Terrestrial Angelic, Angelic Terrestrial. … Seesaw.”</p>
			<p>“Still, Gotch is certain to be disagreeable, <em>most</em> disagreeable. He always is. It puts me into his hands. He is a bad moral influence, I know. Drinking. Gambling. Worse. Still, one must render unto Caesar the things that are Caesar’s. And he is against Disestablishment. …”</p>
			<p>Then the Vicar would revert to the social collapse of the afternoon. “You are so very fundamental, you know,” he said⁠—several times.</p>
			<p>The Angel went to his own room puzzled but very depressed. Every day the world had frowned darker upon him and his angelic ways. He could see how the trouble affected the Vicar, yet he could not imagine how he could avert it. It was all so strange and unreasonable. Twice again, too, he had been pelted out of the village.</p>
			<p>He found the violin lying on his bed where he had laid it before dinner. And taking it up he began to play to comfort himself. But now he played no delicious vision of the Angelic Land. The iron of the world was entering into his soul. For a week now he had known pain and rejection, suspicion and hatred; a strange new spirit of revolt was growing up in his heart. He played a melody, still sweet and tender as those of the Angelic Land, but charged with a new note, the note of human sorrow and effort, now swelling into something like defiance, dying now into a plaintive sadness. He played softly, playing to himself to comfort himself, but the Vicar heard, and all his finite bothers were swallowed up in a hazy melancholy, a melancholy that was quite remote from sorrow. And besides the Vicar, the Angel had another hearer of whom neither Angel nor Vicar was thinking.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
